---
title: 译｜关于健康睡眠的 13 个建议
category: life
tags:
  - health
  - sleep
---

> When you have insomnia, you're never really asleep, and you're never really
awake. With insomnia, nothing's real. Everything is far away. Everything is a
copy of a copy of a copy.
>
> Chuck Palahniuk, *Fight Club*

本文翻译自 *Tips for Getting a Good Night's Sleep*，可在
[NIH Mediline Plus the Magzine Summer 2012](https://magazine.medlineplus.gov/pdf/MLP_Summer2012web.pdf)
阅读原文。

## 1. Stick to a Sleep Schedule

Go to bed and wake up at the same time each day. As creatures of habit, people
have a hard time adjusting to changes in sleep patterns. Sleeping later on
weekends won’t fully make up for a lack of sleep during the week and will make
it harder to wake up early on Monday morning.

## 2. Exercise Is Great, but Not Too Late in the Day

Try to exercise at least 30 minutes on most days but not later than 2—3 hours
before your bedtime.

## 3. Avoid Caffeine and Nicotine

Coffee, colas, certain teas, and chocolate contain the stimulant caffeine, and
its effects can take as long as 8 hours to wear off fully. Therefore, a cup of
coffee in the late afternoon can make it hard for you to fall asleep at night.
Nicotine is also a stimulant, often causing smokers to sleep only very lightly.
In addition, smokers often wake up too early in the morning because of nicotine
withdrawal.

## 4. Avoid Alcoholic Drinks before Bed

Having a “nightcap” or alcoholic beverage before sleep may help you relax, but
heavy use robs you of deep sleep and REM sleep, keeping you in the lighter
stages of sleep. Heavy alcohol ingestion also may contribute to impairment in
breathing at night. You also tend to wake up in the middle of the night when the
effects of the alcohol have worn off.

## 5. Avoid Large Meals and Beverages Late at Night

A light snack is okay, but a large meal can cause indigestion that interferes
with sleep. Drinking too many fluids at night can cause frequent awakenings to
urinate.

## 6. If Possible, Avoid Medicines That Delay or Disrupt Your Sleep

Some commonly prescribed heart, blood pressure, or asthma medications, as well
as some over-the-counter and herbal remedies for coughs, colds, or allergies,
can disrupt sleep patterns. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your
healthcare provider or pharmacist to see whether any drugs you’re taking might
be contributing to your insomnia and ask whether they can be taken at other
times during the day or early in the evening.

## 7. Don’t Take Naps after 3 p.m

Naps can help make up for lost sleep, but late afternoon naps can make it harder
to fall asleep at night.

## 8. Relax before Bed

Don’t overschedule your day so that no time is left for unwinding. A relaxing
activity, such as reading or listening to music, should be part of your bedtime
ritual.

## 9. Take a Hot Bath before Bed

The drop in body temperature after getting out of the bath may help you feel
sleepy, and the bath can help you relax and slow down so you’re more ready to
sleep.

## 10. Have a Good Sleeping Environment

Get rid of anything in your bedroom that might distract you from sleep, such as
noises, bright lights, an uncomfortable bed, or warm temperatures. You sleep
better if the temperature in the room is kept on the cool side. A TV, cell
phone, or computer in the bedroom can be a distraction and deprive you of needed
sleep. Having a comfortable mattress and pillow can help promote a good night’s
sleep. Individuals who have insomnia often watch the clock. Turn the clock’s
face out of view so you don’t worry about the time while trying to fall asleep.

## 11. Have the Right Sunlight Exposure

Daylight is key to regulating daily sleep patterns. Try to get outside in
natural sunlight for at least 30 minutes each day. If possible, wake up with the
sun or use very bright lights in the morning. Sleep experts recommend that, if
you have problems falling asleep, you should get an hour of exposure to morning
sunlight and turn down the lights before bedtime.

## 12. Don’t Lie in Bed Awake

If you find yourself still awake after staying in bed for more than 20 minutes
or if you are starting to feel anxious or worried, get up and do some relaxing
activity until you feel sleepy. The anxiety of not being able to sleep can make
it harder to fall asleep.

## 13. See a Health Professional if You Continue to Have Trouble Sleeping

If you consistently find it difficult to fall or stay asleep and/or feel tired
or not well rested during the day despite spending enough time in bed at night,
you may have a sleep disorder. Your family healthcare provider or a sleep
specialist should be able to help you, and it is important to rule out other
health or emotional problems that may be disturbing your sleep.
